now earlier qatar's foreign Ministry
released a statement saying it expresses
deep regret at the resumption of Israeli
aggression against Gaza following the
end of the humanitarian pause it added
that negotiations to restore the
ceasefire are still ongoing but that the
bombardment of Gaza is complicating
mediation efforts let's bring in Hashim
ahbar who's following these negotiations
very closely for us here in Doha Hashim
we've heard the Israelis blame Hamas for
the resumption of the war Hamas blaming
the Israelis for the collapse of of the
txin extending the ceas fire what are
your catar sources telling you about
what led to the breakdown well basically
the problem yesterday was about the list
of the Israeli
captives uh Hamas said that it
has he provided a list yesterday of the
the Israeli family that was killed the
Bas family the bbas family along with
the father for plus six to be released
in exchange for 30 Palestinians and that
this was rejected by Israel and that
there was another option which was
basically a list of elderly Israelis to
be exchanged for a list of
elderly Palestinians and then they were
trying to look into different options
such as the release of a female uh
Israeli soldiers in exchange for Israeli
Palestinian but that would be a totally
different uh issue isn't it I mean
because it would seem that Hamas would
want to renegotiate the terms of
agreement they were to get to the
soldiers they wanted to make some
concession when it comes to the female
soldiers the male Israeli soldier is
going to be
different and but then they said
throughout the negotiations yesterday
night the Israelis said no we want this
list to to be released and that when
they went through the list they said
these were female uh female soldiers
they have to be part of a different
criteria so it was about criteria it was
about leverage but it was about a great
deal of Uncertain uncertainty about how
to move forward each party was trying
to study the enemy's next move and this
explains why the talks collapsed so the
talks have collapse but I understand
that there's still a line of
communication between the two sides
right and the cies are trying to
negotiate another extension what what's
the likelihood of reaching another
extension another agreement between
Israel and is there a chance that we can
there is they say there is a chance just
the fact that they are negotiating as we
speak is a good indication no one is
pulling out from the talks however they
need to convince both Hamas and Israel
on agreeing on a on a list and
particularly when it comes to the list
of the Israeli captives
as we speak they are yet to finalize the
list if there is no list then you won't
have an agreement then the problem is
you see the escalation today so this is
a collapse of the ceasefire agreement if
it continues to further deteriorate it
will just diminish the chances
whatsoever to extend the ceasefire and
this has been qatar's strategic goal
which is just
continue in the in this track to ensure
that the ceasefire HS if the ceasefire
HS it will be conducive to a
comprehensive agreement but there was
always the risk that the ceasefire would
collapse right I mean there was a risk
sorry that the war would resume because
Netanyahu the Israeli Prime Minister had
said even if the cire is working right
now we will go back to war we will
resume the war and we're seeing the
pictures of that happening right now
with intense Israeli bombardment across
the Gaza Strip the North and even the
South which is supposed to be
safer we seem to be in a new phase of
this war what is it going to look like
you think is it going to be as intense
as the first round do you know when the
negotiate when when they were into the
thick of the negotiations about
potential for a prolonged uh uh
extension uh so came the statements from
the Israelis on the need to destroy
Hamas but then official statements for
the first time by his top Israeli
officials including the Prime Minister
on Israel determined to kill the
leadership of Hass of Hamas all over the
world
the timing of those statements when you
are trying to salvage a political deal
that could be conducive to seiz fire
left many grappling with what are the
Israeli what what are Israel's motives
when it comes to the deal are they
genuine do they want to go to go to a
deal do they want to see a prolonged
ceasefire and then you have the
resumption of the fighting and this
explains why when you see the statement
from Q's Minister of Foreign Affairs it
says while they are determined to
continue mediation but they but they
condemn what they described as Israel's
Collective punishment of the
Palestinians the forcible displacement
of the people and the continuing of the
destruction of the civilian uh property
right and so what should be should we be
watching out for in the next few hours
and next few days Hashim when it comes
to the negotiations of diplomacy tonight
is going to be crucial I mean you have
to come up with something positive you
cannot afford to have a second day of
fighting because there might be uh a
typic point where suddenly you won't
have any control of this whole situation
this is something that Qatar is
understand there's been a momentum
they've been building and they were
hoping to capitalize on that momentum to
to convince the Americans in particular
to put more pressure on Israel for this
ceasefire to hold if it continues and if
the escalation continues for another day
it's going to be extremely difficult to
return back to square one hasham thank
you very much for that Hashim aara
joining us here in the studio